#  CHECK OTHER SERVERS CONNECTIVITY

* If you are in the bigger environment, you need to know that whether other servers are reachable or not. 

* Create 2 Amazon Linux 2 instances by the following ports - change also your ubuntu machine's security rules as follows:
```txt
1.Go to EC2 Dashboard and click "Running Instances" on "Security Groups", select the group of your instance which you need to add security.
2.click on the "Inbound" tab
3.Click "Edit" Button (It will open an popup window)
4.click "Add Rule"
5.Select the "Custom ICMP rule - IPv4" as Type
6.Select "Echo Request" and "Echo Reply" as the Protocol (Port Range by default show as "N/A)
7.Enter the "0.0.0.0/0" as Source
8.Click "Save"
```

* First of all, check the ip adress of other server that you wish to connect by `ping`

```bash

ping <ayaga kaldirdigin diger makinenin public ip si>
```

* Create the script and name it as `ping-script`

```bash
$ nano ping-script
```

* Fill the script accordingly:

```bash
```

* Save your script and quit.

* Give executable permission to your script and run it as follows.

```bash

```
* What if we change the IP adress and try again? Change the IP adress to <randomIP> I took this IP adress from my home directory, I suggest you do the same. 

```bash

```

* You can rerun the ping=script as `./ping-script` 

* As you see, it didn't work with the following output:

```bash

```

* What if we only just want to see `NOT OK` instead of with the other parts such as `Request timed out.` vice versa. In that case, we need to change the structure of our conditional inside the ping-script. Open `ping-script` and add the following at the end of `ping-cl`: `&> /dev/null` as follows:

```bash

```

* Next thing we are going to do is what if we define the IP in a variable. Why do we do that? Because many times we are going to add multiple hosts & IPs. In that case, defining them all in a variable is better option. We can do this by:

```bash

```
* What if we want to ping multiple IP adresses? Let's do it inside a new file, `myhosts`.

```bash
$ nano myhosts

<Other Amazon Linux Machine s Public IP>
<Ubuntu Machine s Public IP>

$ cat myhosts
```
* Here, we are going to create a new script, `ping-script-all` by copying the existed one, `ping-script`.

```bash

```                                                                                       

```bash

```
