# Hands-on Linux-08 : Shell Scripting/Loops

Purpose of the this hands-on training is to teach the students how to use loops in shell.

## Learning Outcomes

At the end of the this hands-on training, students will be able to;

- explain loops in shell.

- use while loops in shell scripting

- use until loops in shell scripting

- use for loops in shell scripting

- use continue and break statements in shell scripting

- use select loops in shell scripting

## Outline

- Part 1 - While loops

- Part 2 - Until loops

- Part 3 - For loops

- Part 4 - Continue and Break Statements

- Part 5 - Select loops

## Part 1 - While loops

- When writing programs in shell, in some cases it is not enough to execute the block of code only once. The loops are used to repeat (iterate) the execution of a block of code.

- while loops have a boolean logic, similar to if statements. As long as the result of the condition returns True, the code block under while loop runs. When the condition returns to False, the loop execution is terminated and the program control moves further to the next operation.

- Create a folder and name it `loops`.

```bash
mkdir loops && cd loops
```

- Let's display numbers from 1 to ten with `while loop`. Create a `script` file named `while-loop.sh`. 

```bash
```

## Part 2 - Until loops

- The until loop is identical to the while loop, except that it will execute the commands within it until the test becomes true.

- Create a `script` file named `until-loop.sh`. 

```bash

```

- Note that, this time we write `-ge` instead of `-le`. So in first sitiuation, condition is false. It will execute the code until the condition is true. 

- Make the script executable and execute it.

```bash
chmod +x until-loop.sh
./until-loop.sh
```

## Part 3 - For loops

- Sometimes we want to iterate a block of code for each of the items in a given list. For this we use `for loop`. 

- Here is a simple example. Create a `script` file named `for-loop.sh`. 

```bash

```

- Make the script executable and execute it.

```bash
chmod +x for-loop.sh
./for-loop.sh
```

## Part 4 - Continue and Break Statements
 
 - A loop will continue forever unless the necessary condition is not met. A loop that runs endlessly without terminating can run for an infinite number of times. For this reason, these loops are named infinite loops.

- Create a `script` file named `infinite-loop.sh`. 

```bash

```

- Make the script executable and execute it.

```bash
chmod +x infinite-loop.sh
./infinite-loop.sh
```

- Push the `ctrl + C` (olmazsa `crtl X`)and terminate the process.

### Break Statement

- As we see above the infinite loop run forever. The break statement is used to terminate the execution of the entire loop.

- Let's modify the `infinite-loop.sh`.

```bash

```

- Execute the script.

```bash
./infinite-loop.sh
```

### Continue Statement

- The Continue statement is similar to the Break command, except it causes the current iteration of the loop to exit, instead of the whole loop.

- Let's modify the `infinite-loop.sh`. This time we do not display 10 and its multiples (10, 20 ..)

```bash

```

- Execute the script.

```bash
./infinite-loop.sh
```

## Part 5 - Select loops

- The Select Loop generates a numbered menu from which users can select options. It's helpful when you need to ask the user to select one or more items from a list of options.
- Create a `script` file named `select-loop.sh`. 

```bash

```

- Make the script executable and execute it.

```bash
chmod +x select-loop.sh
./select-loop.sh
```
